next
program we are joined by David
Washington director of the association
of national security alumni a group
which is opposed to the use of covert
action in intelligence gathering he will
take your calls to discuss the
operations of the CIA and the
intelligence community
David McMichael
- director of the association of
national security alumni in today's
political climate what do you think the
responsibilities of the CIA should be
well the respondent in the CIA should be
always still laid out basically in the
National Security Act of 1947 and that
is to collate analyze the intelligence
information and provide final evaluation
of this to the decision makers the
former employees of the agency yourself
how do you think the CIA has changed the
way it's doing business today well one
thing is that the CIA has been greatly
weakened these are over the last few
years I think it's also having overcome
considerable embarrassment for would
have perceived as major intelligence
failures and of course one of the issues
that seems to come up in a lot of
articles that have been written over the
last couple of months is a so-called
turf battle between the CIA and the
Defense Department explain that well it
has to do in one level with the vexed
affair of so-called covert operations
and this really gets to be a
constitutional matter the President of
the United States is you know and
especially this one mr. Bush has been
very intolerant of what he regards as
congressional intrusion into is very
responsibility in the conduct of foreign
policy and in covert operations covert
actions and I think the temptation to
rely upon the constitutionally based
commander-in-chief Authority to go
directly through the Armed Forces rather
than through the legislatively correct
created intelligence community is almost
overwhelming at this time
much chapter and verse on this in
various presidential message before we
get our first call some background
information if you could give us on the
CIA what kind of authority does it have
no CIA's authority really interestingly
has been alluded to one piece of
legislation going back to 1947 and
Congressional Research Service is
accountability last two years ago
basically as we lied on executive orders
some month some 1,200 of them as a
matter of fact but as our viewers can
see with the graphic now in a screen no
powers to arrest and no powers of
prosecution that's that's correct this
was a major concern of the Congress when
the proposal for a Central Intelligence
Agency would concern over the late day
as well good afternoon from Washington
our guest is David Michael who is the
Washington director of the Association
of national security alumni we will be
taking your calls in just about a minute
or so you'll see the number on the
bottom of your screen for your folks
living here in the east coast or Midwest
number it's two zero two six two eight
two five two five and for our viewers on
the west coast the number it's two zero
two seven eight three two seven twenty
seven as we continue our special
programming this afternoon in
preparation for tomorrow's confirmation
hearings of Robert Gates to head the CIA
Adira met Bob gates through a segment
mr. Miggs when oh when I was working the
agency in 1980 nineteen eighties and I
will not claim a friendship or
familiarity with emerges I've met them
any impression at all that stands out
the only impression I ever took away
from my personal contact with mr. gates
say that he was in fact they very
exactly hail fellow well met but but
certainly an open and frank and a
friendly person may read that quote from
this morning's New York Times refers to
Richard Kerr who is of course the acting
director of the agency at the moment and
he says that until mr. gates or another
candidate has permanently confirmed for
the job he says that the whole issue of
the iran-contra affair troubles him
because he according to this article
told Bob gates about the iran-contra
affair in August 1986 more than a month
before mr. gates has publicly said he
first heard about that any of the whole
issue of credibility your response to
that particular incident well it means
that mr. gates who had to field many of
these same types of questions and any
lack of credibility
during his hearings the hearings in 1987
when he was first nominee was going to
have to face them again and this time
much more strongly because people within
the agency like like Richard Carr coming
forward with their recollection of this
phrenology what are you looking for it
this week I'm looking for a very
hard-hitting affair in which the contest
will be between some Democrats on the
committee who wish to use the gates
nomination to reopen the iran-contra
affair and with Republican members who
wish to use it to quiet the whole thing
down and this part of this goes toward
protection of the president part of this
goes to a protection of the president
charges and rumors abound as to George
Bush's involvement in those years it's
most important to the administration to
say these were handled finally in these
hearings and found not worthy of
consideration where scholar from New
York City go ahead please it seems to me
that we always great debt of gratitude
to the FBI a actions post-world War two
period helping to preserve our freedom
specifically recently the Russian
Foreign Minister has acknowledged that
Ronald Reagan was right and that the
Soviet Union really was the evil empire
throughout that period and my question
is an expert an intelligent matters do
you think is we have a little bit more
openness now within the Soviet Union
that some of the information as far as
the KGB's involvement in the attempted
assassination of the Pope or in the
assassination of President Kennedy will
be divulged or do you think that's
information it'll be very deep forever
well I can tell you that one of the
great growth industries in Europe over
the next year or two is going to be the
pervading of hot stuff information
allegedly from the secret files of the
KGB but in regard to the overall
question yes I welcome a lot more
openness on all sides in the handling of
so-called secret information what is the
National Association of security law by
the association of national security
alumni are a group of former CIA
officers FBI agents we have one or two
members from the from the Drug
Enforcement Administration the general
position is in calling for more openness
in the handling of so-called classified
information secrecy and particularly to
oppose the use of covert actions to
implement foreign policy if I understand
correctly what you seem to be advocating
is doing away with covert CIA operation
Iraq in the future places like that but
I do want to make one comment I don't
believe any president should have a CIA
forced operates in the name of the
American people I believe it should be
brought under accountability of if not
the entire Congress because I realize
there are leaks but the committee for
intelligence
okay the quick answer to your question
is that what you described it is the the
clandestine or secret gathering of
information is not covert action covert
action by by definition our has just
been defined in law for the first time
these are activities of the United
States government influence political
economic or military conditions abroad
where it is intended the role of the
United States government will not be
apparent or acknowledged publicly these
are interventions in politics and
economic affairs and sometimes include
power military or military actions
Michael was born in Albany New York in
1928 served in the US Marine Corps from
1946 until 1959 calling from Los Angeles
please yes I'd like that mr. McMichael
please to comment on the Dani Cavallaro
suicide and also on some of the
investigative work that has Laura was
doing which I know he knows about
connections between BCCI in the flaw
October Surprise in iran-contra there is
a lot of evidence early you know
connections that can be made between all
those four events in particular and
researcher who was pursuing a number of
sources into the clandestine world and
was found dead in a hotel room in West
Virginia or something over over three
weeks ago there's a great deal of
controversy his family does not believe
that mr. Castle Aero in fact killed
himself and there is speculation that he
was gain as they say too close to
important information as a matter of
fact mr. castle Errol called me the day
he left for his
and he almost had it yes he was and I
will also say that had something to do
with the the ins law case we have about
35 more minutes with the David Michael
our next caller is from New York City go
ahead please Michael I want to thank you
for being so straightforward and I
wanted to ask you also about the
in-floor taste however you you just said
that you can't get into that now what I
would also like to know is of what your
opinion or feeling is with regard to
rather Gators knowledge of the
iran-contra affair and any of the other
previously noted allegations thank you
well this of course is going to be the
focus of mr. gates interrogation now he
was weighed in the balance once in 1987
and found wanting in terms of
credibility and is hard for me to
believe that make them that much more
credible especially against the
background of
the indictments of the indictment of
Claire George and the guilty plea of the
valence fire sparkling what mr. gates
faces is the situation is this it's very
clear from judge Wallace's investigation
that there was a widespread pattern of
lying by CIA officers to the
congressional investigating committees
and to the independent counsels
investigators themselves during the very
period when mr. gates was acting
director of the CIA following William
Casey's back and if we were aware of
that of course mr. gates himself should
be indicted if he were aware of that and
did not reveal it or take any steps to
learn about it he should also be
indicted and if this pattern was so
widespread as it appears to be mr. wall
says about 50 carton former agents used
to could charged with perjury while then
one would have to question his
administrative ability and wonder if he
is capable of lying the CIA what will
you be doing this week
I'll be following this as part of the
Pacifica Radio the great interests and
of course these men will have live
gavel-to-gavel coverage beginning
tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. our coverage that
will begin at 7:00 a.m. was not
recognized by the
it states in a year that you described
as we mean Nicaragua Flores Nicaraguan
government the sandanista government if
you will was a recognized government we
exchanged ambassadors the embassies were
open both in both countries so what the
problem is they don't really know
Alton Maryland go ahead please
the FBI's overseas operations are very
limited we have at many embassies there
will be a legal liaison officer who
usually be an FBI agent whose business
is to follow up in foreign countries
matters of interest domestically to the
bluebe FBI historically of course mr.
Hoover at the time of the creation of
the CIA was was terribly opposed to
giving any form of police or
surveillance or any domestic powers at
all to the new CIA and in fact was less
than completely cooperative with it for
a very long time but I can tell you
right now that mr. colbey referred to
during his truck here about the
paralysis which he talked about in
getting Soviet agents for some years
this was while he did not say so this
was due to the the activities of the I
could say almost certifiably insane
James angleton well he was that a
counterintelligence for the CIA and of
course this totally disrupted his acting
he totally disrupted not only CIA
activity
very great disruption FBI acted in the
FBI simply broke off relations for some
time because of that some additional
background information I'm gonna guess
David McMichael as I said earlier was
born in Albany New York graduated
hampden-sydney College Phi Beta Kappa
and also render masters and PhD the
University of Oregon he's also the
editor of unclassified which is your
newsletter yes how many people receive
that well we have a paid subscription
list now almost 700 people and we
certainly hope three parts question I
have today first question your
familiarity in comments with the MKULTRA
program and also on that question what
to what extent does the CIA still have
links or are they investigating mind
control type activities as you were
during that MKULTRA program watch they
will try to take each one at a time if
we can we'll go it's personally ok
MKULTRA to which the caller III go and
we certainly hope to expand them
Hollywood Florida go ahead please yes
good afternoon gentlemen
three-part question I have for you today
first question your familiarity in
comments with the MKULTRA program and
also on that question of what to what
extent is the CIA still have links or
are they investigating mind-control type
activities as there were during that
MKULTRA program ii once the state will
try to take each one at a time if we can
will go with the first one okay MKULTRA
to which the caller refers with the
program started by
deputy director for operations Richard
Helms in 1953 to experiment with the use
of hallucinogens particularly LSD and
other as a bizarre psychiatric methods
to get at what was then believed to be
the communists secrets of brainwashing
which of course did not exist it was an
excellent book on this by the way called
the search for The Manchurian Candidate
by John Marx more important though and I
think this gets directly at the CIA
aspect of this is these experiments were
carried on through a CIA front called
the Institute for the study of human
ecology which had been established at
Cornell University Medical School and
then funded these activities which were
unwitting experiments on at least nine
Canadian citizens over a period of years
at the Allen Memorial Institute in in
Canada which resulted in severe mental
and physical damage I mean these things
were just very bad a lawsuit was filed
in 1973 or lockout versus the United
States which was finally settled out of
court after 15 years of litigation and
this is a scandal I really want to say
this this is a genuine scandal involving
the CIA because throughout the course of
this trial the CIA and the United States
government generally stonewalled on this
the evidence was very plain and none of
those involved including the chief
psychologist of the of the CIA in
various deposition expressed the least
regret for this the case finally had to
be settled out of court a very limited
settlements for the victims because they
were get they were old and about to die
many of them won hat is merit and of
course the litigation is always going to
be a very severe stain on the on the
reputation of the CIA and the United
States government entirely I really mean
that calling it a follow-up yes a second
question given against unscrupulous
activity in the past what are your
comments regarding the connection
between George Bush who was CIA director
1976 and paid informant such as
president men mil Noriega
and did the CIA in fact help to bring
drugs or allow drugs to flow into this
country the my stock answer to that is
to say that in my experience which is
not extensive in this but I have some is
the so called covert operations on any
scale and drug trafficking go together
like dogs and please
I can recommend to you a recent book by
Peter Dale Scott and Jonathan Marshall
called cocaine politics dealing with
this with former DEA Drug Enforcement
assistant a Drug Enforcement Agency
officer Mike Levine who was very
critical of CIA involvement with drugs
overseas called the most important book
on the subject that anyone can possibly
read this is an article in The
Washington Times by a syndicated
columnist cord Meyer the headline
revising clandestine our priorities what
are they revising well in this case the
interestingly the the priorities now are
supposed to go on to matters such as
drugs on to matters such as terrorism
and a particular favorite of the
recently retired judge Webster economic
intelligence several people have
referred to this as critics let me say
of the CIA as desperately casting about
for missions David Michael are you
calling from we can't generate people
who can just go out you know to a
restaurant and talk to a source and come
back with information that would tell us
whether or not that baby factory in
Baghdad really was a baby factory or not
we got here computer on that
were the kinds of Americans that go into
your business just seem to be no good if
they learn a language they want to
become an aficionado or the place well I
this is voicing a lot of criticism one
does hear about CIA activities in the
plain old-fashioned business of
espionage and there have been very very
significant intelligence failures one of
them of course being in a in the case of
Iraq and why didn't we have more agents
on the ground and or and more officers
on the ground what were the priorities
given there these are these are
questions to which I frankly don't don't
know the answer but I can also tell you
that this matter is being addressed but
mr. Colby also referred to this we have
an enormous tape now from from
technology the satellites the listening
devices and so forth and there is some
question as to what what in fact is the
value as compared to the risk of
attempting to place large numbers of
case officers out there attracting ever
larger numbers of agents to to work for
you they the whole business trying to
gather as against capabilities what are
people's intentions is is is a very
difficult one most recently as you
mention in the case of Iraq it was
President Bush himself who dismissed the
the probability analysis presented by
the Mideast experts and both defense
intelligence and and the CIA that Iraq
probably would attack on the ground and
it says humint his recent conversations
with Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King
Hussein of Jordan welcome back in
addition but our next caller from
Rochester New Hampshire go ahead yes I'd
like to a direct question to mr. me
Michael off the presses had a lot about
how the CIA said public accountability
through having to report to the Senate
and all that what what I haven't seen is
how is the NSA publicly accountable is
it is it publicly accountable no as a
matter of fact the the NSA
is not accountable except to the extent
that its budget is a portion of the
intelligence authorization which is
worked on every year the NSA of course
is not an organization which does
anything or should not be doing anything
much beyond collection priorities are
given to the NSA as to what things to be
listening for in what areas of the world
and the tape from that enormous effort
is piled up on the the unhappy analysts
at Langley and in the Defense Department
this is what the newsletter looks like
it's called unclassified you mentioned
earlier about the Iraqi invasion into
Kuwait what do you think we learned from
that whole incident well this the Iraqi
invasion to Kuwait I think the
information is fairly clear that the the
Iraqi forces had pulled up into a
situation which they could attack the
question became would they attack the I
think the one of the most important
lessons learned if if indeed it was
learned goes back to decisions made six
years earlier seven years earlier in
fact during the iran-iraq war when the
United States made its tilt toward Iraq
and meetings in Baghdad by high US
intelligence officials as I am informed
and at that point we as a former
high-ranking National Security Council
officer Howard Teicher said in an
interview in The Washington Post some
months ago I said we were so busy giving
intelligence to Iraq we didn't spend any
time gathering intelligence about Iraq
and perhaps that is if there's a lesson
to be learned there it's that you are as
assiduous in these instances in
collecting intelligence information on
those you consider your friends at this
time as you are against
you consider your enemies ex Colin from
Minnesota go ahead please yes it was
mentioned earlier that mr. McMichael
believes that there should be
intelligence gathering without covert
operations how is that possible well I
thought I'd explained that because
covert action covert operations have a
particular definition these are actions
undertaken by the United States
government to influence political
economic or social results in another
country in which the action they
participates the United States is to be
concealed or if revealed plausibly deny
these are positive actions these are the
things like fixing elections for example
or sabotaging the harvest all things
that have been done by the way the
covert gathering of information is not
considered covert action the reason
there is a difference is because in
order for the intelligence community to
carry out a covert action there has to
be a presidential finding which
determines under the new law that such
action is necessary for the national
security and to achieve a definable
United States foreign policy objective
and that finding has to be presented to
the Congress to the Congressional
Oversight Committee the committees in
the Senate and the house they cannot
prohibit these but they must be informed
about them so there's a real difference
here I hope that I hope that answers
your question
Eugene Oregon go ahead please this was
Fairbanks Alaska token to mingle sorry
about that but go ahead Fair Plains back
get on the line yes
okay no mister McMichael would you
comment on allegations made in a
well-documented book by mr. Stephen
Mumford in the book is America democracy
in the Vatican population growth now sir
security put out by the humanist press
and the allegation is that the CIA is
dominated by Roman Catholics well you
know certainly there have been Roman
Catholic directors of the Central
Intelligence Agency John McCone for one
I don't think one could you know buy
that there have been there are other
allegations at various times that the
CIA was controlled by wasps white
anglo-saxon Protestants or laterally by
Mormons so you take you take your pick I
I will say this with regard to the
comment however in various parts of the
world at various times such as Italy in
the immediate post-war world war two era
or in Latin America up until very recent
period it has been a tendency for the
United States government to regard
conservative elements within the Roman
Catholic Church as as allies in the
United States policy and therefore our
intelligence agencies have in one way or
another attempted to use sources within
there or to work on sometimes covert
actions there but I don't think I could
endorse your statement that the the CIA
is is dominated and or controlled by
Roman Catholics how long did you work
for the agency I was in the pension plan
as they say for just twenty five months
Eugene Oregon is still on the line
thanks for waiting go ahead please this
is Eugene Oregon yes go ahead please I
wanted to comment and then a question my
comment is is mr. Mack Michael shows
that a rather definite to a DCI a bias
based on his twenty five a month
exposure this always makes me leery of a
person like the camo who gets outside
the tent and does his business back into
the tent I believe there's some bias
there it always makes me want to see the
fellas efficiency report see what kind
of action he had well that we'll ask him
about that in the meantime you might
want to turn the volume down on your set
so we can hear you a question but your
response to his first comment well I
have never attempted to portray myself
as a
a professional CIA officer or a door
employee I had they say 25 months
working as a gs-14 senior estimates
officer with the National Intelligence
Council during the period that I
mentioned from time to time both before
and after that I carried out under
contract some some activities of usually
the research nature or always in a
matter of fact of the research nature
for the CIA in various overseas
assignments usually under Department of
Defense contract in Central America and
in Southeast Asia in the nineteen
sixties I think I had ample opportunity
to view and some cases coordinate with
certain agency activities but as far as
my my so called efficiency reports can I
say they're classified you have a
follow-up sir yes I just wanted to get
on record that I don't believe the
Alumni Association is typical the X
intelligence officer attitude second
part a substantive question as to do he
seems to be uncomfortable with the
relative positions of the CIA versus the
defense intelligence activities I'm
certainly not uncomfortable that I'm
what I've tried to present here is what
I regard is a very interesting evolution
in which the Department of Defense has
various intelligence agencies including
the DIA
and the the Special Operations Command
are assuming a more and more powerful
position within the intelligence
community and I think that mr. Colby
referred to that and in his remarks as
the fact that you were going to run up
against the very tough and determined
Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney you
know that's true Long Island New York Oh
head please yes I'm wondering if the
gentleman could comment as to whether or
not really the American people are in a
position whereby they would know whether
or not there was a sinister secret
conspiratorial power
four groups dominating our government
and their past and present actions could
be hidden what well you know you're
getting you're getting into one of the
perennial popular areas for for
speculations I think it goes without
saying that in in any society in any
community there is a an establishment
that is true
you know whether these these groups
which at various times seem to exercise
inordinate influence in in in the
government or represent in fact sinister
conspiracies or merely well organized
economic or social interests which are
characteristic what politics is all
about and some of them in fact do try to
operate behind the scenes as why in the
city of Washington there are very large
numbers of lobbyists very well-paid to
contact people for these purposes is is
certainly a an ongoing question but I'm
not prepared with any knowledge I had to
say that there is such a conspiracy and
that it is effective and is controlling
I have a good deal of faith in the in
the people of the United States and I
think that the political system which we
have and these sources of information
which are available to people in which
they can apply through that political
system would militate against the let us
say the permanent establishment of such
a conspiracy in this country Madison
Wisconsin good afternoon earlier on the
relationship between covert activities
and drugs I'd like you to comment on
some information that come out after the
iran-contra hearings in which John Hall
in Costa Rica was indicted for murder
illegal drug trafficking and gun-running
in Costa Rica and this is where the CIA
well he doesn't admit he's a CIA
informant but
supposedly this is where the guns and or
money and drug whatever were brought in
by the CIA or money for the Contras I'd
like you to comment on that yeah well
miss mr. John Hill whole story is an
interesting one in fact he has stated
publicly that is a CIA asset in his case
he was declares that he was receiving up
to ten thousand dollars a month to repay
him for the use of his ranch in northern
Costa Rica for various activities
involving the the supply of the contra
forces and it is also true as you say
that the Costa Rican government has
under its system effectively indicted
him charged him with international drug
trafficking and has asked for his
extradition from the from the United
States this request for extradition was
made I think almost a year ago at this
point and it seems to be proceeding very
snail-like manner I think there is
strong elements in a Costa Rican
government at least my friends there
tell me this who are not really too
serious wanting him there because it
involves a lot of Costa Rican
politicians as well and the United
States government has given every
indication over the years of wishing to
give maximum protection to to mr. Hall
this is a story that has yet to be fully
told but there is a there is a lot there
and by way of being a small scandal yeah
our preview of the rubber gates
confirmation hearings will continue
until the top of the hour and Dave
McMichael will be here for about
fourteen more minutes you take more of
your calls Walnut California go ahead
please yes this is Susan Amaya hi
my question is what is the relationship
or difference between the CIA and the
National Endowment for democracy
well when the National Endowment for
democracy was legislated into existence
in 1983 congressional testimony and
statements on the floor at that time was
that this would allow the United
now to do overtly the sort of a
political intervention which the CIA had
been doing covertly and in fact the one
can only say you know democracy is a
good thing a National Endowment for
democracy is a good thing one questions
though whether let us say the United
States would submit with good grace to
the foreign nations organizing an
endowment to come into the United States
and expend large sums of money in our
electoral contests a matter of fact is
prohibited by law here but we we do use
this in other countries the NAD has been
used in Panama in in the Philippines and
Nicaragua there is a large plan for its
operations now in Angola and the planned
elections there but I I hesitate to say
that relationships are official or close
but I I think in a case in which I know
reasonably well the Nicaraguan elections
of 1990 that the action in terms of
support for the candidates the United
States favor was very closely
coordinated with covert activities
undertaken by the by the CIA over a
number of years any connection though
between the NAD and some of the people
who run that and yeah well yeah as a
matter of yeah you can you can check
into the backgrounds of people who have
been see the ne D works through
contractors it's composed the National
Endowment board is composed of the the
foreign policy branches of both the
Republican and Democratic parties the
the farm Institute of the AF of l-cio
and a similar body of the United States
Chamber of Commerce and the the
contracts which they award to you know
through the appropriations from Congress
the people who've received these not
infrequently our
I've been associated with in fact our
former United States intelligence
employees this is not Satan once they
believe that employee they're not free
to use their their foreign expertise to
see contracts but know this this sort of
thing does arouse the sort of suspicion
and comment which the you know which the
caller indicates in it and happens to be
a matter of fact New York City good
afternoon hello
you know I sat through four days of the
Thomas confirmation hearings and I'm
looking forward now to the confirmation
hearing for robert gates and after
watching the Sunday morning shows today
with David Boren saying that it is very
plausible that Robert Gates did not know
about what was going on with iran-contra
one thing that came to my mind and it's
making me somewhat angry is what if that
happened to common sense
is there no common sense in the American
public to yes anything is perhaps
plausible but the idea that this man who
is so intricately involved with the CIA
did not have awareness or knowledge of
what was going on around him and going
just back to the analogy with with
Clarence Thomas the idea that these
senators spent four days discussing the
abortion and whether or not he talked
about it or even thought about it
common sense would tell you that he had
so why do we waste so much time will the
Senators just basically protect the
Washington establishment and cover-up so
to speak for people for someone like
Gates and Thomas or just use common
sense and say you know if I'm gonna be
true to my own intelligence and not
himself myself as well as the American
people I will tell her I'm just gonna
stop you we get your point thank you for
calling but your reaction to what she
had to say my reaction is very similar
these matters were gone over with mr.
gates in 1987 and frankly so many doubts
were raised about his
his credibility is his competence as a
result of that that he whipped true his
nomination now here it comes again as
someone used to say and certainly more
information has come out since then
which indicates that if mr. gates were
not more aware than he has admitted to
be then one really has to question his
confidence and I think the caller
indicates that the common sense would
say that that is so and many critics of
mr. a mr. gates including those from
within the agency
Thomas polgr the one have made very
strong statements saying that to give to
mr. gates after the the events of
iran-contra and his his role or at least
his lack of diligence and vigilance
while he was in a position to exercise
control been such that to put him into
the position of the Director of Central
Intelligence would be very damaging to
the morale of the intelligence community
would give a very bad signal as to how
one succeeds in the intelligence
business what an Oregon go ahead please
this country well corner the
responsibility for KGB agents in the
United States belongs to the FBI and its
counterintelligence activities and in
fact they do get a very significant
budget by the estimate of the Federation
of American science on this their recent
bulletin the
FBI counterintelligence will get at
least 300 million dollars for their
activities this year another five
minutes or so with your phone calls
Woodbridge Virginia yes
I have a question relative to a book
that was published in 1989 by William
Corson and the cooperative with Susan
Joseph Trento widows in that book they
make allegations that the former
director of counterintelligence Eggleton
as a result of an investigation by agent
Clair petty was in fact named as a mole
for the Soviet intelligence service
dating back to his relationships with
kim Philby in the 30s well the
relationship in fact we're in the in the
in the 50s with kim Philby but mr.
Angleton's career was so bizarre the man
himself so strange if I may use a
euphemism here that one of the great
scandals I think of the CIA is that
under three successive directors Allen
Dulles John McCone and Richard Helms
this man who by the estimate of chief
psychologist of the CIA itself was a
dangerous paranoid was permitted to hold
the position as long as he did we
commented on that earlier there's an
excellent book on on mr. angleton by Tom
mangled published last year called the
cold warrior worth reading very quickly
how did we get information for the CIA
what kind of operations did the u.s.
have well the I think the point made by
mr. Colby is accurate that the United
States did not have a well organized
intelligence system but the information
and I deter my preferred to intelligence
by the way the information that we got
came principally from our
you know our embassies abroad and the
military attache 'he's there at and i
can say very frankly that the work even
before that particularly dealing with
the with the soviet union that was
organized by by george kennan and others
was first-class stuff washington d c--
good evening i am i was securing their
previous call from new york who said
that the senators who don't want take a
reality pill and just sort of assume the
mr. gates knew about this problem with
the iran-contra period and then go from
there and i want to know is there a
single shred of evidence that mr. gates
knew about iran-contra that could stand
up in a u.s. courtroom now i'm looking
here at the washington post today and it
says a script for mister game to be used
with the house chairman but it doesn't
say he was given the script and i've
heard the people below him knew about it
the people above him knew it but it
doesn't say mr. gates knew about it is
there and i'm asking you on you know
your knowledge of this is there a single
shred of evidence that would say
definitively mr. gates knew well of
course when you when you narrow it down
to definitively like that of course it's
impossible to give an unambiguous answer
but i can tell you this that if you will
go to the transcript of the of the
hearings of held on mr. gates in 1987
when he was first nominated for this
post and you will go to the to this
grant transcript of his appearance
before the senate intelligence committee
to testify to what he knew about this i
think you will find a great deal of
evidence indicating the high probability
that he did now whether in a US
courtroom if this were in front of a
jury the weight of this evidence would
be sufficient to carry a verdict i'm not
prepared to say but don't talk about no
shreds of evidence there is plenty of
evidence is much more than a shred and
i'm afraid a lot of the evidence has
been shredded there time for one more
caller los angeles california good
evening hello yes why don't you just go
back over who has access to the CIA
that could be opened up more no I don't
know what really mean but who has access
to the CIA is the CIA's reporting of
course goes out to a great number of
officials particularly in any executive
branch or the widespread distribution
list for you know for this sort of sort
of reporting the Congress of course gets
periodically its its reports in front of
the Select Committee's on intelligence
and as far as other access goes with
some difficulty but it is still possible
you can use the Freedom of Information
Act and the average citizen can get a
certain amount of information but I will
tell you this that one of the worst
flaws of the Central Intelligence Agency
is it been an excessive secrecy just
last year the very distinguished
professor Warren Kohn resigned as did
most of his colleagues from the State
Department's review board for the
Foreign Relations series because of the
total refusal of the CIA to give up
documents now 35 and more years old in
countries like Iran and Guatemala or
major activities were carried out by the
CIA and as Professor Cohen said this
amounts to a fraud on history this is
this is a problem we'll Robert Gates get
confirmed I do not but I'm gonna I'm
gonna go out on the limb on this when I
say I do not believe mr. gage will be
confirmed no David McMichael the
Washington Director of the south